# Testing Document

### Unit tests
The coverage of unit tests can be found [here](https://codecov.io/gh/yumoL/walkingAMaze).

#### graphVisualization and main
Methods in packages graphVisualization and main aren't tested automatically in unit tests since they're all about visualizing a graph and console UI. Whenever running the program it's quite easy to see whether these methods work or not. 

#### data
Methods in class GraphData are tested in unit tests to see if the graph can be initialised correctly. I created a GraphData-object and go through it line by line and row by row to check if there is correct character in each coordination. I also tested some methods which are needed when implementing algorithms by giving these methods different variables to make sure they work in the right way with valuable variables to are able to throw exceptions when given variables are illegal. 

Most of the methods in class Node aren't tested separately in its own test class since they're simple getting or setting methods. Methods to define if two nodes are same and compare two nodes are tested seperately. I generate some nodes to test these two methods to make sure equals-method can determine two nodes as same when they have same coordinations and compare-method can determine if one node ss smaller/lager than another one when these two nodes have different f-values. 

#### algorithms
Algorithms to generate gaphs and find path are tested automatically in unit tests. I created ten new graphs, five of them using randomized DFS and the rest randomized Prim. I use BFS to find paths from generated graphs to make sure there is at least one path in each graph. 
I test path finding algorithms by giving the random numbers used in randomized Prim a seed so that the generated graphs are same in the test all the time. Then I use implemented path finding algoithms to walk the graph and make sure BFS and A* using Manhattam distance and Euclidean distance can find the shortest path and all algorithms can traverse the correct number of nodes. 

### Performance Testing

In the performance testing I'm going to test the efficiency of BFS-algorithm and A*-algorithm. A*-algorithm is implmented by using different heuristic functions including Manhattan distance, Euclidean distance and squared Euclidean distance. Algorithms' execution time and traversed nodes will be measured. I'm going to test the efficiency of the algorithms mentioned before in different sizes of graphs. Also a graph with the same size will be generated in different ways, using DFS- and randomized Prim's algorithms. Each graph will be walked ten times and average time will be taken as the result. Graphs gnerated by DFS have a low branching factor and their paths are usually long corridors. Graphs generated by randomized Prim have relatively higher branching factor and their paths are shorter than the paths in graphs generated by DFS. In peformance tests I'll find out how this difference affects the efficiency of the path finding algorithms. 

*Assumed DFS = randomized DFS and Prim = randomized Prim*

|size(rows x columns)|generation method|performance time using BFS(ms)|traversed roads using BFS|
|:------------------:|:---------------:|:--------------:|:-------------:|
|51 x 51| DFS |2|836|
||Prim|4|1299|
|101 x 101|DFS|5|4744|
||Prim|15|5232|
|501 x 501|DFS|22|117537|
||Prim|41|131038|
|1001 x 1001|DFS|67|477731|
||Prim|226|523932|

|size(rows x columns)|generation method|performance time using A* with Manhattan distance(ms)|traversed roads using  A* with Manhattan distance|
|:------------------:|:---------------:|:--------------:|:-------------:|
|51 x 51|DFS|3|738|
||Prim|2|353|
|101 x 101|DFS|5|4612|
||Prim|4|1520|
|501 x 501|DFS|39|115189|
||Prim|36|77715|
|1001 x 1001|DFS|106|465633|
||Prim|98|287738|

|size(rows x columns)|generation method|performance time using A* with Euclidean distance(ms)|traversed roads using  A* with Euclidean distance|
|:------------------:|:---------------:|:--------------:|:-------------:|
|51 x 51|DFS|2|787|
||Prim|2|978|
|101 x 101|DFS|4|4677|
||Prim|4|4257|
|501 x 501|DFS|31|115447|
||Prim|37|117849|
|1001 x 1001|DFS|99|467008|
||Prim|130|469518|

|size(rows x columns)|generation method|performance time using A* with squared Euclidean distance(ms)|traversed roads using squared A* with Euclidean distance|shortest path|found path longer than shotest path
|:------------------:|:---------------:|:--------------:|:-------------:|:--:|:--:|
|51 x 51|DFS|0.074|598|251|0|
||Prim|0.038|210|99|12|
|101 x 101|DFS|0.35|3610|1095|0|
||Prim|0.77|541|207|42|
|501 x 501|DFS|10|103426|18323|3582|
||Prim|0.59|4979|1045|548|
|1001 x 1001|DFS|10|219019|35295|9706|
||Prim|1|6599|2087|818|

